[whispering]
Lisbon.
Don't move.
'Does it bite?'
- He could've killed me.
- Shh!
[indistinct radio chatter]
- 'CBI?'
- Yes, sir.
Lisbon. Jane.
Mullery.
What took you so long?
Sheriff, I understand this
is a tough situation for you.
Tough situation?
This is Deputy Nelson Capel.
Been with me 15 years.
Got three kids.
He answered a 9-1-1
call last night at 10:23
from a local girl,
Keeley Farlowe
on her cell phone.
She gave her location here
and the line went dead.
This is Deputy Lance Connor.
[Mullery]
'Five years in.'
His dad was in
high school with me.
And that EMT
captain you see there
crying like a baby.
That's my nephew Todd.
The reason he's crying..
...Keeley, that's his
fiancee,throat cut.
So, yeah, tough situation.
You go ahead
and look at whatever it is
you wanna look at.
Let me know when you're done
so we can take these
folks someplace decent.
Eesh. This is trouble.
Interesting, though.
Three different methods
of killing. Why is that?
It's always bad when local
cops are personally involved.
Think the feds
would want this one?
The bodies have
been arranged as well
not in an ostentatious way,
but there's a definite..
...aesthetic at work here.
He took his time.
[Jane]
Yeah, it's a truly complicated
maniac we're dealing with.
[Lisbon]
Yes. I think
I will call the feds.
No, don't do that.
I don't know why,
but I...I want this case.
Or vice versa.
Alright, but I have
a feeling I'm gonna be sorry.
Are you people done yet?
Sheriff Mullery, just
so we're on the same page
in cases like these, we, the
CBI, have sole jurisdiction.
Your department would have
a strictly advisory role.
You can have all the
jurisdiction you want.
I swear to God,
the man who did this
will not live
to see a courtroom.
You didn't hear that.
Yep.
I'm already sorry.
[theme music]
[instrumental music]
What's the password for Wi-Fi ?
- Say?
- 1-2-3-4.
Of course.
So, CBI.
- Top guns.
- Not really.
- I'm Agent Grace Van Pelt.
- Bob Woolgar.
Number two around here.
That's Hobbs.
[man clears throat]
Sir, may I help you?
May I please speak
with whoever is in charge
of the murder investigation?
Why is that?
I'm sorry. Are you in charge?
- No, but I..
- I thought not. Ha ha.
Sir, I'm with the CBI.
We're in charge
of this investigation.
If you have any
information about the case
- I'd be happy to help.
- Miss, no offense.
You are far too young
and pretty to have any
authority in the matter.
I shall wait...
for your chief.
Hmm.
[male #1]
'If you're media, keep movin'.'
[shotgun cocks]
CBI. Police.
Put the weapon down right now.
Alright. No problem.
No need to shout.
- And you are?
- I'm Joe Hunnicker.
Keeley's my granddaughter.
I live here with her and Todd.
Come on in.
[Joe]
'She was a good girl.'
'You know, if she and Todd
hadn't brought me in here'
'on my VA check,
I'd be in a hostel somewhere.'
- 'Hey, Todd.'
- Lisbon. Jane.
Oh, hey. Yes, we met.
[Todd]
'Really, I-I apologize
for my outburst there.'
I was, uh, a little crazy.
You can imagine.
I'm calmed down a little now.
Rest assured, I-I won't be
pulling any vigilante nonsense.
I'm very sorry for your loss.
And I'm glad you
see it that way.
There's no upside to taking
the law into your own hands.
Revenge truly doesn't work.
Well, that's just
a sweeping statement, isn't it?
I'm sure we can
all think of examples
where revenge
has worked splendidly.
Thanks for your input.
Just sayin'.
Tell us about Keeley.
I don't know what to say.
I love her.
We're getting married.
- We were.
- Parents?
Auto accident,
about five years ago.
Drunk driver.
Both dead.
When was the last time
you spoke to her?
About an hour before
she was due home.
I called her.
And I-I asked her to bring
home some beer and chips.
[Todd]
'Me and Hunny, were,
were playin' gin rummy'
and I could've picked her up.
You know, I often do when
it's raining or whatever
but last night, last night
I was just, I was lazy, I guess.
This was basically
my fault that she's dead.
Don't.
Don't say that, son.
[Joe]
'Don't take that on yourself.'
Please find who did this.
I just wanna know why.
Why?
Keeley worked the late
shift for the last year.
4:00 to 10:00,
as reliable as clockwork.
Great kid.
Everybody loved her.
Always had a smile
for you, you know?
[female #1]
'Yeah, she thought
the best of folks.'
Kinda naive that way.
Meaning anyone in particular?
No, just, you know,
in general...trusting.
Last night, what time
did she leave work?
10:00 as always.
On that so-and-so bicycle.
I told her it wasn't safe
but she said it saved money
and kept her skinny.
Did anything unusual
happen during her shift?
Anything at all?
Not that I saw.
There was this trucker
that tried to pick her up.
Come in a few times now.
Always left her
like a 10-buck tip.
He was in here yesterday
around closing time.
You remember him, Rusty?
She used to love to show
her engagement ring to guys
to shut 'em down, but this
guy was like, "I don't care."
- 'He kept on trying.'
- You get his name?
It says "Greg" on his shirt.
You remember him,
big, old, greasy fella.
Nope. Can't say I do.
He drives this truck with this
big smiling orange on the side
with arms, like,
hi, I'm an orange.
Examples where revenge
worked splendidly.
- Nice.
- 'Uh, I was just teasing.'
A little hypocritical of you
to lecture him on revenge,
don't you think?
How's that?
Uh, all these years you've
been helping me seek revenge.
- This is different.
- 'How's that?'
I'm in control of the situation.
Oh, really?
She must have been
abducted somewhere
along this stretch of road.
Strange we haven't
found her bike.
Maybe she didn't
head straight home.
What do you mean, "You're in
control of the situation?"
When the day comes,
when we find Red John
I'm gonna be there to stop
you from doing anything foolish.
We're gonna put him in
front of a judge and a jury.
- You really believe that?
- Yes, I do.
Really?
I just assumed you took
that judge and jury stuff
with a grain of salt.
Well, you assumed wrong.
No salt.
You know the reality
will be different.
Red John is mine
and I will exact
my revenge on him.
I think, when the time comes
you'll see that violence
is not the answer.
I had no idea your naive
idealism was so deeply felt.
- Hush.
- "Hush."
Hush.
Excuse me. You are
Agent Teresa Lisbon?
- Yes, I am.
- Good evening, ma'am.
My name is Ellis Mars.
I understand you are leading
'the Keeley Farlowe
murder investigation.'
Yes.
Ah. Poor girl.
I often saw her around town,
so fresh, innocent.
Yes.
I have information.
[Ellis]
The killer is going
to strike again.
Soon.
And how do you know that, sir?
Well, it's hard to explain.
Some call it a third eye or ESP.
[Ellis]
I think of it
simply as my gift.
[Jane chuckles]
Not interested. Thanks though.
Well, I've been waiting
here for several hours.
Well, perhaps you
are more broad-minded, sir.
Uh, don't get me started.
I forgive your brusqueness.
I can tell that you have
been visited by great tragedy.
Oh, really?
I'm sorry.
I did not mean to offend.
I just, uh,
saw it in your eyes.
Goodbye, Mr. Mars.
[Ellis]
If you do need my help
again, please call me.
I'll happily come back.
[Grace]
'Cho and Rigsby have
gone back to Sacramento'
'to pick up Gregor Hobart.'
'Drives a truck for
Happy Citrus Farms.'
Was seen talking to
Keeley as she left work.
- What about forensics?
- They put a rush on the report.
Be here first thing
in the morning.
And I booked us rooms
at the nearest motel.
Reasonable price.
Deputy Hobbs says it's clean.
Good. It's been a long day.
- Hmm.
- You alright, Jane?
Oh, small-town motel,
gas station pizza.
What could be better? He he.
[intense music]
[thinking]
"Tiger, tiger, burning bright
"tiger, tiger,
burning bright
"tiger, tiger, burning bright
"in the forests of the night
"what immortal hand or eye
dare frame thy
fearful symmetry?"
"Symmetry."
[horn blaring]
[Cho]
'Gregor Hobart?'
Yes.
Don't run.
Wasn't going to.
Yeah, well, you had
that look about you.
No one calls me Gregor.
- What's this about?
- Keeley Farlowe.
She's dead, murdered.
Oh, no.
You were fond
of Keeley, were you?
Yes, I was.
Did you ever tell her that?
Sure. I asked her out.
What was her response?
Uh, I think she was intrigued.
She was engaged to be married.
We're all sinners, brother.
Even nice girls like Keeley.
And when did you
last speak to her?
Yesterday, uh,
when she left work.
When she left work? Where?
Outside the diner
in the street.
She was unlocking her bike.
That makes you the last
person to see her alive.
- Mm, apart from her killer.
- Right. So you said hi?
Uh-huh. I said, "Hi."
She said, "Hi."
'She was upset..'
'...and so I
tried to make her feel better.'
I told her a joke.
- This goat walks into a bar--
- What was she upset about?
The cook at the dinner
was hassling her on the sly
grabbing at her.
You know, a secret lech.
They had a tussle
just before I saw her.
So she was upset.
So anyway, I made her laugh.
She rode off happy.
And that's the last
you saw of her?
Yeah.
The strange thing..
...when she was leaving
the moon was coming up
over the hills
and it looked like
she was riding to the moon.
You know?
I was admiring
how pretty she looked.
And at the same time..
...it gave me a bad feeling..
...like an evil omen.
We hear you were
harassing Keeley Farlowe.
Putting your hands on her?
No.
We hear you had
a fight with her yesterday.
No.
It's hot in here.
Roll up your sleeves.
That's okay. I'm not hot.
[intense music]
A cat did this.
[whistles]
There is no cat, Rusty.
And forensics
will find your skin
under Keeley's
fingernails, won't they?
I want a lawyer.
Leave him alone
with me for ten minutes.
I'll get a confession.
That's a great idea.
That's not the way we work.
Don't worry about it,
little lady.
Go get yourself a latte.
Check your e-mail.
It won't take long.
Sheriff, I believe we have
some cultural differences here.
I think we'll take this
gentleman back to Sacramento
question him there,
avoid friction.
Come on.
You had her at "little lady."
My aunt had a cat.
Little Charles Manson with fur.
Percy he was called.
- Get it? Purr-see.
- 'Interesting anecdote.'
Just trying to keep
our friend at ease, right?
- Hey. Hey!
- I'll kill you!
[both grunting]
Relax, sir.
Relax and the pain will stop.
Tell me why I shouldn't charge
Todd Johnson with assault.
- I think you should.
- But he's a good kid.
He just got carried away.
Are we gonna ruin his life
with a criminal record?
I mean, hasn't he
suffered enough already?
Vengeance is not legal.
People need to know that.
So I have justice
and humanity on my side
and Lisbon has
a teachable moment.
Let me talk to him.
I will persuade him to
drop the notion of revenge.
I'll put him back
on the right path.
You think you can do that?
I know I can.
I've been there.
Okay, go do that.
And if he says the right
things and I believe him
'then he can walk away.'
Yes, ma'am.
Have a seat.
[Jane sighs]
You just tried
to kill an innocent man.
- Very lucky you failed.
- I didn't fail.
I mean, I wasn't thinking.
I don't know what I was doing.
- You're sure he's not the guy?
- He's not the guy. Trust me.
CBI chief wants to
charge you with assault.
Well, I guess
I got it coming to me.
'Unless..'
Unless..
...you're willing to swear
you've learned your lesson
and you won't pursue
personal vengeance.
I can't do that, Mr. Jane.
I find who did
this to...to Keeley
I will kill him.
I can't swear to do otherwise.
Todd, you repeat
what I tell you now..
...and I will deny
every word of it.
If you truly want revenge,
you have to be hard.
You have to be dishonest
and devious and cold.
You can't let people see
what's in your heart.
Okay?
So anyhow, I'm, I'm very sorry.
I swear it will
never happen again.
I'm glad to hear you say that.
And I'm glad to say that you
can walk out of here a free man.
No charges.
Thank you.
That was all BS, right?
Well, it sounded
pretty sincere to me.
I hope you know
what you're doing.
About 78 percent sure.
Grace, what is it?
The ballistics report came in.
Deputy Connor was shot with
the same .45 caliber handgun
that was used in the
Howard-Ortiz murders.
- Oh, crap.
- Howard-Ortiz murders?
Two months ago,
Sac PD Officer Jeff Ortiz
was shot dead
by a passing motorist.
Then exactly one month later,
CHP Officer Rance Howard
was shot dead
with the same handgun.
'Both incidents occurred late
at night on country roads.'
Howard used to work here
before your time. Good guy.
The San Francisco office has
the case. Did you talk to 'em?
Yup, they're sending over
a copy of the case files.
A serial killer
of policemen. Very interesting.
This is not
a fascinating puzzle.
It's a media crap storm.
Okay.
San Francisco
basically has nothing
on the Howard-Ortiz murders.
No forensics apart
from ballistics
no witnesses, no leads.
And Rusty Moore was
on vacation in Florida
when the first murder occurred.
Hobart's company log puts him
out of range in both instances.
So we can discard both
of them as suspects.
Well, forensics
found no suspicious DNA
on Keeley or the two deputies.
The tire tracks at the scene
of the crime were standard make.
Over five million sold
in California alone.
We got nothing, basically.
Well, except a monthly
pattern, a .45 caliber handgun
and a grudge
against the police.
[Rigsby]
'But why Keeley?
She's not police.'
Why not Keeley?
He sees her riding along.
It's easy to knock
her off her bike.
Now he has bait to lure
the deputies into a trap.
In any case, the killer's
gotten more elaborate.
It started with
a simple drive-by.
Now we have multiple victims,
staging of bodies, arson.
He's beginning to enjoy
himself, spreading his wings.
I'm reading your interview with
Hobart, the poetical trucker.
He says that when Keeley
rode off, and I quote
"The moon was coming
up over the hills
"and it looked like she was
riding to the moon, you know?
"And I was admiring
how pretty she looked.
"And at the same time,
I had a bad feeling about it..
...like an evil omen."
Moon rises in the east.
So she was riding east.
But her route home
is west of the diner.
She wasn't headed home
when she left work.
We've been looking
for the abduction site
on the wrong stretch of road.
[instrumental music]
[Mullery]
'Yeah, that's Keeley's bike.'
Okay.
We're gonna have to
cordon off this whole area.
I'm gonna call forensics,
get some techs down here.
Where does this go?
Where-where was she headed?
Um, about half
a mile down, there's a..
...make-out spot
the local kids use.
After that, nothing till you get
to Gainesville, 20 miles away.
[Rigsby]
'Hey, I got somethin'.'
Looks like a button from
a pea coat type of thing..
...like sailors wear?
Sailors and, uh..
[both]
Firemen.
[Cho]
We're investigating
the Orchard murders.
We need a list
of all the firefighters
that weren't on duty
the night before last.
And anyone who was supposed to
be on duty but didn't show up.
Okay.
You look troubled.
No.
Yeah, actually, I mean,
there was one guy
who didn't show up
that night, but..
...there's no way.
He's-he's not that kind of guy.
What's his name?
Kitchen. Ben Kitchen.
And where can
we find Mr. Kitchen?
Yo, Kitch. Get out here.
These detectives
wanna talk to you.
[Ben]
Okay. What'd I do?
How'd you lose your eyebrows?
Barbecue accident at home.
And why didn't you come into
work the night before last?
Stomach bug.
Might be it was the barbecue.
[chuckles]
What's this about?
Your lack of eyebrows.
I know what she looks like.
I didn't kill her.
I was home, like I said
a million times now.
You say that
but you have no proof.
I don't need proof.
You need proof.
You have a bad attitude.
- What's the matter?
- My face hurts.
You don't like policemen?
Don't love 'em.
It's nothing personal.
It's a firefighter's tradition.
[cell phone ringing]
Sheriff Mullery.
Hey, Lisbon, I hear you
got a suspect in custody.
Oh, yeah. He looks
pretty good for it.
- A firefighter, huh?
- Yeah. Ben Kitchen?
[Mullery on phone]
'Yeah, I know him.'
Alright. Look, I'm on
my way to the office now.
Oh, it's alright, Sheriff.
It's early days yet.
- We don't even know if--
- Don't worry.
I won't interfere.
I learned my lesson..
[gunshot]
Hello?
'Sheriff?'
[Lisbon on phone]
'Sheriff Mullery? Hello?'
'Hello?'
[instrumental music]
Waiting for confirmation
from ballistics
but the ME took what looks
like a .45 slug from Mullery.
Same caliber as the
previous murders, same MO.
So we have to assume
it's the same shooter
only a different schedule.
Three days from the last
murder instead of a month.
Why the change?
Because he had to kill Mullery.
Because Mullery
discovered something.
Why did Mullery
keep it quiet then?
And how did the killer know that
he had discovered something?
Good questions.
Sir, I don't care what you have
to say, you're not allowed in.
Please, deputy,
I am trying to help.
Hobbs, it's okay.
I'll deal with him.
What brings you
back here, Mr. Mars?
I'm sorry. I never
caught your name.
Patrick...Jane.
[Ellis]
Patrick.
Patrick, I don't mean
to be self-serving
but I did tell you there
would be another killing.
Yes, you did.
Poor Mullery.
Lisbon was actually on
the phone with him when he died.
Well, I suppose we owe
you an apology, but, uh--
No! No, no, no.
Without doubt,
there can be no faith.
All I ask is that
you'll listen to me now
with, uh, an open mind.
Now that you know
what I say is true
perhaps you can imagine
how helpful I can be to you.
Can you imagine that?
Are you trying to hypnotize me?
No.
[chuckles]
Patrick, of course not.
Felt a little weird.
[Ellis]
Yeah. I know.
Trying is nothing.
Doing is everything.
All I'm doing is asking...
for you to let me helpyou.
Hmm?
I can help you.
You can help us.
Come on in.
Thank you. Ahem.
Lisbon. Sheriff.
You remember Mr. Mars?
- Yes.
- He can help.
- Really?
- He can?
Well, I know you're skeptical
but please, hear him out.
I think you'll
be very impressed.
I need to run to the store.
Then we should take him out to
Keeley's place to look around.
I'll be right back.
- 'I sense that you're upset.'
- Oh, really?
Oh, yes, I see.
You were the last
person to speak
with Sheriff Mullery,
weren't you?
Yes.
Oh, I see you right
there when he died.
Ahem. No. No. Ahem.
Right there but not there.
You were on the phone
with him when he died.
- Whoa.
- How did you know that?
A psychic?
You're kidding me.
Come on.
This guy's good.
[instrumental music]
What room is that?
- It's the bathroom.
- Uh-huh.
So what's the gag?
Because this appears to
be an absurd waste of time.
Yes, it does, doesn't it?
Wait a minute, though.
You'll enjoy the next part.
The mark of a good psychic
is the ability to improvise
to use to
your advantage whatever
props might come to hand.
Ah.
What is it? A tooth?
A wolf's tooth.
Where on earth would
a wolf's tooth come from?
The killer must
have left it here.
It's a sign.
As a clairvoyant, a man
of clear sight, if you will
it's my opinion the killer has
a strong lycanthropic complex.
He believes he's
a werewolf or a wolf man.
"Were" being an
Anglo-Saxon word for "man."
And hence, of course, the
monthly pattern of his crimes.
His behavior is driven
by the phases of the moon.
[female #2]
'You say there's a killer out
there who turns into a wolf?'
No, no, no.
No, I'm saying there's
a killer out there who believes
he turns into a wolf, and so he
isa wolfand behaveslike one.
The mind is a powerful machine.
It can create reality.
[Ellis]
'And that is all I will say..'
Now I think I know
what your game is.
- Really?
- Hmm.
I'd be very
surprised if you did.
Ouch!
Of course. You're right.
The killer is driven by
the phases of the moon.
That is brilliant.
How did you work that out?
Simple deduction.
And the last killing didn't
break the pattern at all.
It simply initiated
a different lunar cycle.
- Exactly.
- So tonight's a big night, huh?
- Tonight?
- 'Moon's at it's apogee.'
I'm no astrologer, but, uh..
...isn't that
a highly charged moment?
Uh, it, uh, it can be.
It depends.
[Jane]
And since serial killers
always have a very strong urge
to return to the scene
of their crimes.
- Oh?
- Yeah.
I wouldn't wanna be up
in those hills tonight.
That werewolf stuff
gives me the creeps.
[laughs]
Well, it's, uh, easy to be
scared of the unknown, hmm?
- Would you excuse me?
- Well, of course.
- Huh? Hmm?
- 'Mr. Mars?'
[male #2]
'Can I get one of those?'
- 'Here, have one, please.'
- 'Thank you.'
Sheriff Woolgar,
do you have any deputies
watching over
the original crime scene?
No. Why?
Well, I've been thinking
about all this wolf stuff
and it occurs to me that it's
very likely that the killer
will return to
the scene of the crime.
Why?
Well, serial killers do,
don't they?
Well, some do and some don't.
Someone that thinks
they're a wolf
will almost certainly return.
Wolves always
return to their kills.
They do.
I'll put some men up there.
That's smart.
[intense music]
[screams]
Help!
[music continues]
[panting]
[grunts]
[music continues]
[panting]
[whimpers]
Good evening. Get in.
[grunts]
What on earth
are you doing out here?
[panting]
I was waiting for the killer..
...but he saw me.
'He chased me.'
That wasn't the killer.
That was the police.
And now they probably
think you're the killer.
[panting]
Oh, my God. Oh!
This is your fault.
Excuse me? How so?
Did I tell you to go out there
in the middle of the night?
No, I did not.
[grunts]
I'll go to the police.
I'll explain things to them.
They'll see.
It's, uh, a misunderstanding.
Yeah, sure, they will.
They'll only keep you
locked up a couple of days.
As long as no angry cops try
to take revenge, you'll be fine.
Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
Don't worry. I'll help you.
We can fix this, okay?
Just trust me.
[instrumental music]
Todd, It's Jane.
Meet me at the Sheriff's office.
[whispers]
Lisbon.
Lisbon, get dressed. I have
an excellent play in motion.
Lisbon.
- What is it?
- Uh, get dressed.
I have an excellent
play in motion.
Huh?
[instrumental music]
[Bob]
'We're about to crack
the biggest case'
'this area's had in a long time'
'and we are
running out of time.'
I want him flagged for arrest
at all the airports in the area.
What's happening?
They found someone?
Ask Sheriff Woolgar.
Well then, let me
talk to someone who can
for crying out loud!
- Yes, I'll wait!
- What's the rumpus?
Bob, it's okay. I promise
I won't do anything crazy.
I just want to know.
My guys spotted Ellis Mars
creeping around the crime scene.
He ran off when
challenged, left his car.
We found dried blood and a long
dark human hair
on the back seat.
It's on its way
to forensics now.
Ellis Mars?
That doesn't make sense.
Well, we should've
realized before.
He knew Lisbon was on the phone
with Mullery when he died.
- Psychic powers, he said.
- Wait. He knew that?
- How-how could he know that?
- Exactly.
He's not psychic. He was there.
Yeah, but he, he's
been helping you guys.
It's a common psychopathic
profile, classic almost.
They seek a part
in the investigation
they seek the spotlight.
- Well, where is he now?
- We don't know.
Hey! This is acting Sheriff
Woolgar, Vineland township. Yes.
Count to ten,
then meet me outside.
Well, what the heck do I have to
do to get people at the airport?
Yes, now!
[intense music]
Get in.
- Where are we going?
- You'll see.
Get in.
[music continues]
Ellis Mars is in room 21.
Consider it a gift
from a brother in arms.
I hope someday someone
will do the same for me.
You're messing with me.
No.
I'll show you.
[intense music]
See?
- Oh, my God.
- Go ahead.
What are you waiting for?
This guy cut Keeley's throat
and watched her die.
I-I didn't.
Don't bother lying to us, Mars.
We found Keeley's blood
and hair in your car.
That's impossible!
What's going on, Todd?
I'm not gonna shoot this guy.
All that talk of revenge
was just hot air, was it?
- You don't have the guts.
- Oh, I got the guts, alright.
I just don't know
for sure he did it.
We have hard
evidence against him.
Yes, you do
and I don't understand that.
[Todd]
I guess you're framing him
for some reason but why?
And why would you
want me to kill someone
who didn't really do it?
What's your game?
Huh?
You're setting
me up, aren't you?
Or I'm simply telling you
the truth and Mars is guilty.
No.
No?
And you're sure?
Yeah, well, you're right.
Mars' only crime
is foolishness and fraud.
I set him up.
Get outta here.
[door closes]
What's this about?
See, the thing is, Todd
there's only one way you can
be so sure of his innocence.
It was you that killed Keeley
and Mullery
and all of those cops.
You're nuts.
Oh, don't-don't bother
with the song and dance.
I'm satisfied you're guilty.
You're a garden
variety psychopath.
Probably been killing random
people here and there for years.
I'm not sure why you
turned on cops all of a sudden
but I'm sure you
have your good reasons.
Your dad was a cop, right?
Yes, he was.
He was mean to you.
Made you hate policemen maybe?
No.
He was a kind and gentle man.
Then who was it
that made you this way?
And please don't say
it was your mother.
That'd be too cliche.
No, my mother was a saint.
You're mistaken
about me. Really.
Really?
Oh, well, let me
run it down for you.
You killed Keeley because
she was getting too clingy.
She was asking too many
questions about your other life.
[Jane]
She bugged you.
Mullery died because he
recognized that button as yours
and he asked you about it.
You stalled him..
...then you
had to kill him quick.
Broke the monthly pattern
which wasn't about
the moon, of course.
Once a month,
Hunnicker got his VA check.
'Goes on a binge,
drinks till he blacks out'
and gives you an alibi.
How am I doing so far?
- You're very clever, Mr. Jane.
- Thank you.
I must confess,
I underestimated you.
More like you
overestimated yourself, Todd.
No. You say that only 'cause you
don't see the whole big picture.
There's a reason
for everything I've done.
- What's the big picture?
- You'll never know.
Right. There's no big picture.
Oh, trust me.
It would blow...your...mind.
[clicks]
No firing pin. Oops.
Of course.
Cho! Rigsby!
- Drop the weapon!
- Hands on your head!
- Uh..
- You're under arrest.
[instrumental music]
[door opens]
What is it?
I've changed my mind.
I want to talk.
That's a smart move.
But I'll only
talk to Mr. Jane.
Why is that?
We have a connection.
Maybe he doesn't
want to talk toyou.
Tell him I have a secret.
A secret only
he will understand.
A secret, huh?
That's what he said,
that you were the only one
who would understand, that
you and he had a connection.
He's just trying
to lend an air of mystery
to his sad little
story of madness.
The case will go a lot easier
if we can get him to talk.
I have spent enough
time with that creep.
Staring into the abyss.
You know, it's not healthy.
[Lisbon]
Please?
Just hear what he has to say.
He's right downstairs
in the holding cell.
[Jane sighs]
[dramatic music]
[Todd grunting]
[panting]
PSU is starting
an investigation.
They figure it's
somebody getting revenge
for Officer Howard.
They'll need to speak
with you later today.
Okay.
Doctor says his systems
are shutting down.
That he probably won't
regain consciousness.
[ECG machine beeping]
Okay, then. I'm gonna go
finish up the paperwork now.
[grunts]
[beeping continues]
"Tiger, tiger."
[beeping intensifies]
[flat lines]
[rapid beeping]
[intense music]
[male narrator]
Stay tuned for scenes
from out next episode.
[theme music]